4 NRDelegationAttack
The attack is formed based on the specific interplay of several DNS mechanisms in the resolver, some of which were
introduced only recently. In this section, we explain these key
mechanisms and their interplay before describing a variant of
the attack in Section 4.1, Figure 1 and Figure 2. The attack
proceeds as follows:
1. Following a malicious query, the malicious authoritative
server sends a large referral response (LRR, see Section
2.2) to the target victim recursive resolver. The referral
list contains n (≤ 1500) different domain names, with no
glue records. The recursive resolver will try and resolve
the query with any one of the n NS names in the list. As
a first step, the resolver has to resolve these NS names.
2. Before starting to resolve any of the NS names in the
LRR, the recursive resolver checks in the cache and the
ADB to see if any of the n names already has a resolution
that it can use. When n is large, this operation consumes
an enormous amount of memory and CPU resources;
we denote its compute cost by CC(n). This is the core
source for the complexity of the NRDelegationAttack,
which is significantly amplified by being repeated in a
loop. This loop is due to the NXNSAttack mitigation
mechanism, which forces the n names to be processed
in chucks of k names at a time, as explained in the next
4 steps.
3. This kind of LRR, with n nonexistent (NX) domain
names and no glue records, was used in the “NXNSAttack” [5]. In the NXNSAttack, when the resolver
receives the LRR, n resolution processes start simultaneously, essentially flooding both the victim recursive
resolver and the authoritative appointed by the NX domain names in the LRR.
4. To mitigate the NXNSAttack, a new ’referral limit’ (e.g.,
= 5) denoted by k was imposed on the number of referrals that can be resolved out of the n names for each
client query; the value of k may differ slightly in different implementations (see Section 2.4). If all k attempts
return NXDOMAIN or FAIL, the resolution is aborted
and an NX response is returned to the client, thus cutting down the amplification factor of the NXNSAttack.
In the following section, we compare the effects of the
NRDelegationAttack to that of the NXNSAttack. We
refer to the resolver versions before the NXNSAttack as
pre-NXNS and those after the NXNSAttack disclosure
as NXNS-patched versions.
5. In the NRDelegationAttack, rather than n nonexistent
NS names, the attacker uses n existing NS names without glue records. Each such name is a name of (or leads
to) a server that is non-responsive (NR) to DNS_queries
server (see Section 2.2), hence the name “NRDelegation”. Upon receiving such an LRR, NXNS-patched resolvers will initially resolve k NR names, and will try to
ask each of these servers to resolve the query.
6. As explained in Section 2.2, each delegation response
triggers a “restart” event. Hence, k restart events are
triggered when each of the first k delegation responses
are received by the recursive resolver (NXNS-patched
version).
Each restart event clears the resolver indication that the
“referral-limit” was reached for this LRR. As a result, the
resolver starts the process from the beginning, except
this time it starts with the resolutions of k other names
from the LRR. Consequently, each restart caused by
each delegation initiates the resolution of k additional
names from the LRR. This ultimately results in k more
delegations. The process enters an expanding loop in
which k
2
resolutions of NS names from the LRR are
started in the subsequent iteration of the loop. The bad
news is that after each of the restart events, as long as
there are names in the LRR whose resolution has not
yet started, the recursive resolver again checks whether
any one of the n names in the LRR already has a usable
resolution in either the cache or the ADB (see Step 2).
The resulting compute load is (k +k
2
)·CC(n), which is
the core reactor of this complexity attack. In principle,
after the next iteration, the accumulated complexity is
(k +k
2 +k
3
)CC(n) but no more than a maximum of n.
7. In pre-NXNS versions, the n resolutions of each of the
domain names from the LRR start at once. Thus, although it issues many queries, the load complexity on
the resolver is much lower than in the NRDelegation
attack on NXNS-patched versions because the resolver
flags the LRR after going through all of the LRR domain
names. It will not repeat Step 2 as it does in the patched
versions. In addition, the NXNSAttack will have a larger
packet amplification factor because each authoritative
responds and exchanges packets with the resolver. In the
NRDelegationAttack, the non-responsive servers simply
do not respond. On the other hand, the NXNSAttack
is terminated faster; once an NX response is received
by the resolver, it ends the client resolution with an NX
response. In the NRDelegationAttack, the resolver keeps
waiting in the hope that one of the (non-responding)
servers will respond. While waiting, the resolver also
keeps processing additional NS names from the LRR
until it hits the safety threshold counters (see below).
As a result, the NRDelegationAttack on pre-NXNS resolver versions has nearly twice the CPU complexity
of the NXNSAttack on the same version (292 million
instructions vs. 180 million per attacker query), while on
the NXNS-patched version it is 38 times more complex
(3415 million instructions vs. 90 million per attacker
query, see Figure 3).
8. In real implementations of the recursive resolver, either
pre or patched NXNSAttack, there are safety limitation
counters on the number of restarts allowed in each phase
and in total (= 100 restarts). These limitations prevent
the process from continuing exponentially until reaching n. However, these safety bounds are high (e.g., 100
restarts before the resolution aborts) and do not restrain
the power of the attack, which is still enough to deny
service at the target.
9. Because there are several different delegation methods
in the DNS system, the NRDelegationAttack has different variants, depending on the delegation method being used. In the most straightforward version, but not
the simplest to craft, the attacker can use a list of existing domain names that are not responsive to DNS
queries. For example, this may include different web
servers such as www.google.com, www.usenix.org, etc.
Alternatively, ’broken’ or stale domain-to-IP mappings
can be used as domain names in the referral list. Using
a modular method, the attacker can also use his own
delegation server, in which several different response
options direct the resolver to a resource IP that is nonresponsive to DNS queries. We refer to this as the “delegation server” variant. For example, the attacker can
use an “NXDOMAIN-Redirection” [33] response (see
Appendix B) in which, instead of replying with NX to
non-existent domain names, the delegation authoritative
redirects the resolver to an NR resource. Additional delegation options are given in Section 4.2 and Table 1.